# Game Review for (Kingdom Hearts III)

## Kingdom Hearts 3 is an action RPG that is developed and published by Square Enix. 

### Kingdom Hearts III
  Kingdom Hearts III, https://www.kingdomhearts.com/3/us/home/.

### Rating
  I will be rating games on a 1 to 10 star scale, and I give this game a 8 star rating.

## Summary
  This game is about a young boy named Sora who travels with Donald Duck and Goofy who travel between different worlds that 
exist in Disney and Pixar. There are stories for each world where Sora, Donald Duck, and Goofy helps the protagonists from the 
world their visiting against either their own antagonists or from the antagonists of Sora and company such as the heartless 
nobodies,or other characters that have been taken over by the darkness which is primarily lead by Master Xehanort. While Sora
and company are the primary protagonists of the game and Master Xehanort is the primary antagonist there are different 
antagonists per world or level that are more in line with the original story of the world that they are visting. Most of the 
world's story sticks to the story that is played out in the movies made by Disney and Pixar. The game itself has many story 
arcs underlying an overall arc that extends back to before Sora was even born when the original dark moment that started the 
story which mainly follows Master Xehanort as he tries to create the ultimate Keyblade in order to become the most powerful 
being in the Kingdom.
  The mechanics of this game are based around slashing and dashing play styles. Sora's main weapon he uses to battle enemies
in the game is a large Keyblade which he wields as a regular blade even though it has a key appearance. There are also elements
that are added to his keyblade as you level up in various worlds that have different advantages such as some will give back
health while others do more damage to enemies. This allows for the player to have a little freedom in their play style since
that does vary from person to person. For example some people prefer to play around health and focus on thatin orer to
successfully complete the campaign and missions where as other might not worry about health and instead go all for damage and
try to defeat the enemies as quickly as possible before they are taken out themsevles. There is the addition of special attacks
based on the environment such as pillars or walls that kept the game from getting boring or repetitive during the different
stories.
  The game series is pretty intricate and long with many various stories occuring at the same time in different parts of the
universe. This game adds to that by having a side story that you play in in between certains parts of Sora's playthrough. While
Sora, Donald Duck, and Goofy are off traveling into old and new worlds with the goal of helping Sora strengthen himself so that
he could heal lost hearts once again there are other misions being carried out that you keep up with. The side mission focuses
on Mickey Mouse who is the King of the Kingdom and Riku one of Sora's close friends who has also found himself intertwined into
this long and complicated storyline against many versions of Master Xehanort. King Mickey and Riku are searching for a long
lost comrade who actually was part of the first trio that was trained and pitted against Xehanort in order to protect the 
Kingdom and that inadvertently passed along their keyblade weilding abilities to Sora and his two best friends, Riku and Kairi.
The game gets more difficult the deeper into the story you get as Master Xehanort is growing in strength and continuing his
own agenda which includes reforming Organization XIII with thirteen clones of himself from different timelines and ages in
hopes to become unbeatable all together and to reforge the ultimate X-blade.

## Final Thoughts
  I liked this game although I do think I was missing a big chunk of the overall story since I did not play the previous eleven
installments of the game and there are a lot of characters even in just the main story invloving Sora's storyline. I was able 
to watch a few videos put up by others who were able to summarize the plot and story so far so that I was not completely lost 
when I started up the game. What was nice about trying this game without any previous knowledge about the series was that I was
able to fully test the intuitiveness of the controls since I did not grow up playing the first installments and did not already
know the controls at all and only learned through the demo the game gave before it started the actual storyline. I liked the 
different worlds that were vistied since I enjoy Disney and Pixar a lot personally. The different character customizations to 
match the worlds that the trio were in were fun and interesting to see since the worlds had pretty different apperances such as
Pirates of the Caribbean versus Monsters Inc. I would greatly recommend this game to others and plan on playing the previous 
installments so that I can grasp the story even better and enjoy it to the fullest.

## Additional Information
  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_Hearts_III
