# Game Review for (Monopoly)

## Monopoly is a board game that incorporates dice and cards. It was published by Hasbro, Parker Brothers, Waddingtons, Winning Moves and designed by Lizzie Magie and Charles Darrow.

### Monopoly
Monopoly, https://monopoly.hasbro.com/en-us

### Rating
I give games a rating from 1 to 10 stars and I give this game a 8.5 star rating.

## Summary
Monopoly is a classic board game that incorporates two six sided dice and two decks cards. The game typically consists of at least two and up to eight players. Each player picks out a metal "token" or little figure that represents them on the board during the game. The classic tokens are a dog(schnauzer), a top hat, an old styled car, a thimble, a laceless shoe, an old style flat iron, a wheel barrow, and a ship. Before the game itself can begin one player must be chosen as the banker who will be responsible for handling the money throughout the game aside from playing their own part. Each player starts out with a st amount of money in order to make intial investment purchases so that they can build up more money throughout the game in order to beat the other players. Once the money has been distributed the game can start.

The players all start on a corner together on the board labeled Go with an arrow pointing in the direction they are expected to travel and take turns rolling the dice in order to move around the board. A player must do one complete lap around the board before they are able to make any purcases. After a player completes their own first lap around the board anywhere else they land can be used to gain power in the game. There are different properties that are on each of the four sides of the board that can be bought and owned. There are railroad squares totaling to four on the board(one on each side) as well four tax spots that are set up similarly to the railroad spots. There are two sets of three prpoerties per side that if all three are obtained by one player can be built on even more. When players land on properties owned by other players they must pay a fee for "renting" that spot for the turn. Owning a whole row or more is a quick way to monopolizing the money from other players if done right. Other than being able to purchase the properties on the board as they land on them players are also able to buy them from other players or do trades if both players can make an agreement.

There are 8 total spots on the board that are tied to the two decks of cards that are placed in the middle of the board. One stack of cards are labeled chance and when a player lands on a chance spot on the board they pick from this deck and perform whatever action it entails. As it's name implies the action has a chance to be good (collecting money or moving forward) or bad (paying money, moving backward, or going to jail). The other deck of cards are labeled community chest and landing on the correlating spot on the board has the player picking up from this deck. This deck of cards is very similar to the chance cards except that they focus more on the money side of the good and bad events that could happen to the player. Both decks also include the card(Get Out of Jail Free) that a player may hold onto or sell to another player which allows them to get out of jail immediately without paying a fee. While some of the fees the player must pay from these cards go to the bank the rest of the fees are set in the middle of the board by everyone and continues to pile up until collected by fate from a lucky player.

Lastly, outside of the Go square there are 3 other border spots that are pretty important. One is the jail spot which a player can land themselves in either due to an unlucky card draw or due to the another border spot. The other border spot if landed on sends the player directly to jail where unless they have a Get Out of Jail Free card they are stuck in until they can roll matching numbers on the dice. The last border spot is the free parkibg spot which if the player lands on the spot then they receive all of the money that has been collected in the middle of the board.

## Final Thoughts
I enjoy the combination of pure luck and good strategy that this game requires. There is no set way to move to ensure a victory since the movement on the board is left up to the numbers rolled on the dice so one also needs to be sure to purchase properties on the board correctly. However, one can also not just rely on buying certain properties to lock in the win either since the opponents will vary as well and so the player must take into account other people's possible moves and thoughts before acting on their own. These two main elements of the game keep any one game from being similar to another but also causes each individual game to be a long winded event so much so that it is common for the game to be finished not by the actual intended ending which is one person left with all the money and the rest bankrupt but rather for the game to end due to people choosing to quit until there is one left because they no longer wish to continue the game.

## Additional Information

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monopoly_(game)
